# **PROJECT: BLUE PLANET** 

# Description
This project aims to raise local awareness about global warming by encouraging individuals, governments, and organizations to be socially responsible and to provide an answer to the most important question of all: What is our environmental footprint?

Greta Thunberg's most empowering quote, "Our relationship with nature is broken," emphasizes the importance of stepping outside of our comfort zone in order to save our planet. According to the 'IEA analysis,' global CO2 emissions will rise by 300 million tons in 2022, representing a 6% increase over 2021. In 2019, the agriculture sector in Germany was responsible for 56.1 million tons of CO2 emissions.

This equates to 7.7% of Germany's total greenhouse gas emissions. If we continue to live the same way, by 2050 the world is expected to have warmer temperatures, acidic oceans, and higher sea levels, making it extremely difficult for life to survive on Earth. The time for change has arrived.

The project's motivation is to **Think Globally, Act Locally!**

This project assists you in calculating your environmental footprint by converting your activity data to CO2 estimates, allowing you to understand your environmental impact and also suggesting activities to manage and reduce CO2 emissions.

The aim is to better understand CO2 emission estimates in the Agriculture/Hunting/Forestry/Fishing sector in Germany in 2021. According to a report by [newfoodmagazine.com](https://www.newfoodmagazine.com/article/167236/the-impact-of-inflation-on-food/#:~:text=Indeed%2C%20the%20reasons%20for%20food,main%20drivers%20for%20this%20elevation), the cause of food inflation is rising production costs due to rising energy costs,which is currently a challenge in Germany. Let us use the Climatiq API and data sources to calculate CO2 emission estimates and emission factors in order to gain a better understanding of the activities in the Agriculture/Hunting/Forestry/Fishing sector that contribute to CO2 emissions.

# Getting Started

## Requirement 

* Python 3.7 or higher 

### Download

To Install python of a specific version, In terminal :

          pip install python == 3.9 

If you want to check for your python Version 

          python -- version


## Set up 

1. Clone this repo. 

     git clone https://github.com/td-berlin/data-engineer-code-challenge-sirisha-jotheeswaran-padmasekhar.git

2.  Generate API

     Create a unique [API Key](https://www.climatiq.io/docs/guides/getting-api-key) by following the steps below: 

    * Create an account https://auth.climatiq.io/
    * Sign In with your account credentials
    * Create API Key
    * A unique auto generated API Key is successfully generated! 

3.  API Configuration 

Its always a best practice to store APIKey in a separate file to preserve confidentiality. An apiKey has no expiration date unless the APIkey is regenerated by the owner therefore, sharing APIkey is restricted. 

 By following the standard guidelines, a sample python code file named 'sampleconfig.py' is provided for your reference  Given below are few instructions to prepare your config.py file : 

 Make changes in the file 'sampleconfig.py' : 

* apiRequest is a dictionary with string key-value as baseUrl and apiKey  

* Copy the baseUrl from the website's front page. Visit [Climatiq](https://www.climatiq.io/docs) and paste it as value for the key "baseUrl"

* From the API Generation step, copy the autogenerated API Key and paste it as value for the key "apiKey"

* Do not forget to rename the file sampleconfig.py as config.py

4. Run the python file main.py in terminal

5. Log.txt contains data of a list of activities in the Agriculture/Hunting/Forestry/Fishing sector and their corresponding total co2 estimates.

# Error 

HTTP Response Codes to indicate success or failure of API Request

**Status Codes **
| Status Code  |  Description | 
| :---:   | :---: | 
|200| OK: Everything worked as expected.|
|400| Bad Request: The request wa|s unacceptable, probably due to missing a required parameter.|
|401| Unauthorized: No valid API key was provided.|
|404| Not Found: The requested resource doesn't exist.|
|5xx| Server Errors: Something went wrong on our servers.|

# About Data   

* [Climatiq.io](https://www.climatiq.io/) contains data from multiple sources from around the globe, spanning various sectors, regions, and years. The task is to create a class or classes in Python to query the Climatiq API and collect the data. 

* This project focuses on calculating CO2 emission as per sector (i.e., Agriculture/Hunting/Forestry/Fishing) in the region 'Germany'. As a result, we could conclude upon the sector's contribution to Co2 emission and analyze finding alternatives for those activities to reduce co2 emission and bring a positive outlook for natural resources & consumption. 

Explore other sectors here : Climatiq Data Explorer : https://www.climatiq.io/explorer 

# Documentation 

Python is the most preferred programming language in the field of Data science to leverage the use of libaries to collect data and gather interesting insights from various data sources. On working with multiple projects in Masters with python, I was familiarised with various packages. My internship experience as Data Engineer helped me gain hands on experience to apply my knowledge in bussiness to collect data, data transformations, analysis using Machine learning algorithms and visualization libaries and tool (i.e, PowerBI and tableau). The coding assessment at TDReply helped me showcase my understanding and experience with python and API. 

On working with TDReply's coding assessment, I taught myself using many sources to learn and implement unit testing. In case of a big project and code base, testing helps debug our own code and also prevent from breaking the flow of the whole code and the project.

The key advantages of Unit testing includes:

* Dectecting problems early
* Mitigating change 
* Simplify integration
* Source of Documentation 

which remains a primary element in improving the readability and scalability of complex projects during colloboration. 

# In the Code
For the purpose of this task, there are two different api calls one using GET and the using POST methods. 
The GET method fetches the list of emission factors based on the query parameters provided
The POST method calculate total estimated emissions produced for a particular activity.

Sample inputs have been provided in the main file and outputs are logged as mentioned. 

Test case has been written for the GET method for its success case scenario.

# Author(s)

[Contributors to the repository](https://github.com/td-berlin/data-engineer-code-challenge-sirisha-jotheeswaran-padmasekhar.git)